---
aliases: ["About This Guide"]
module: Beginner
chapter: 1
section: 1
---

# About This Guide
Welcome to the RPG Manager Getting Started Guide for Beginners. Do not let the beginner language for you, this guide is for new users of the plugin as much as it is for those who have been using it since day one. This is guide to read up on not only see how to adjust a campaign you have created, but to see how to use a new feature that is added to the plugin.

We will be using the setting, situation, and characters of the *Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring* (Peter Jackson's Film Version) as our main example in this guide. If we're lucky, we may make it into *The Two Towers*. :) When possible, we will throw in other analogies better explain a concept and how it may tie into your unique campaign.

### The Sorting Tree
First, let's sort you into one of four groups so you can know what to skip and what to pay close attention to in the guide. 

> *Oh you may not think I am pretty.... Err, wrong Universe. Ahem
> *A-lalla-lalla What can the Ents do for you? Little Readers*

R1: I am **Brand New** and I **Do Not Need** To Import Data!
Ent: Ta-runa. You are Little Orc. No? Oh. You are **Team Seed**.

R2: I **Need To Import** an **In-Progress Campaign**!
Ent: You are **Team Leaf**. 

R3: I **Need To Import** a **Completed Campaign** (and perhaps In-Progress too...)
Ent: ***The Ent is very certain this one is an Orc disguised as a Reader.*** 
>***DC 15*** **Deception Check** : 1d20+2 -> [15]+2 -> **17**

Ent: Hmmm... You are **Team Twig**.
R3: *I totally fooled that tree. Toasty campfire tonight.*

R4: I'm Just **Here To Browse**.
Ent: HARUMPH! I knew you were Little Orcs. You are **Team Mulch**. 

> The Ent disappears with a pop.

R3: "Thanks a lot. There goes my campfire..."

### What You Will Learn
This guide will teach you step-by-step how to do the following:
1. How to create a new Campaign from start to Ready to Play
2. How to create a Campaign that is already In-Progress
3. How to create a Campaign that formerly Completed
4. How to create characters, non-player characters, factions, and other worldfilling fun
5. How to show the relationships between all of the above
6. How to edit all of the above

## Important Callouts
Due to this guide addressing three use cases (No Import, In Progress, Completed), you will notice some pages contain a small blurb or callout that looks like the following:

> **Team Twig**: Do not proceed to the next step yet. Go back, and repeat steps 1 through 2 for each location you want to add. When completed, you may move onto the next step.

> **Team Seed**: We suggest skipping this section for now and coming back when you are ready to add more things.

Please read these carefully as they were added to save you time, maximize your understanding, and get you playing faster.