---
aliases: ["A Brief Introduction to Terminology"]
module: Beginner
chapter: 1
section: 2
---

# A Brief Introduction to Terminology
RPG Manager uses a [**Hierarchy**]() to separate and organize the details of a campaign plot. This organization system takes familiar features from theatre, film, and writing, and divides it up into easy-to-implement [**Components**](). 

The structure is fixed and cannot be customised.

## The Hierarchy
> **Campaign** > **Adventures** > **Acts** > **Scenes**

A [**Campaign**]() is an overarching plot which does not involve the player characters directly.

> There can be only one Campaign per Campaign. There can be many Campaigns per vault.

An [**Adventure**]() is self-contained story arcs that intersect the campaign' main plot. There can be multiple adventures in a campaign.

>There can be multiple adventures in a campaign. You might equate them to a season in a television show.

An [**Act**]() is a further branching of an adventure and provides a more organized way to manage the adventure's arc. Apart form being a logical branch of an adventure, an act has its own plot that supports the campaign's overarching plot. 

> There can be multiple acts in an adventure. These would be the episodes in the season of the television show.

A [**Scene**]() is the smallest element in the plotting phase, and identifies a moment in a game in which the player characters are required to do something. Consider, for example, a combat, or meeting a non-player character, or climbing a wall to reach something they need: these are all examples of scenes.

> There can be multiple scenes in an act. These would be equivalent to long moments of dialogue or action between transitions or commercial breaks in an episode of a television show.

## The Components